## Direct/indirect communications and communications without judgement
Among various techniques, direct communications versus indirection communications are very familiar with many of us. Mostly each of us will follow a specific style: either direct or indirect communications in exchanging our observations, feelings and judgments, due to our background. But we are aware of both of methods. Another aspect of communications is to express observations but not feelings or judgments about something.

These techniques are so important in communications during learning and teaching. In fact, it is not easy to use them in the right way as the way we use these techniques is almost automatic with little control/advanced plan. I think that we need to understand better the role of these techniques and the context where we can employ them during our teaching. In particular, we need to understand the culture of students and when we should use direct (e.g. with European students) instead of indirect communications (e.g.,  with Asian students). Furthermore, I think dependent on the severity and urgency of the matters that we might also employ more direct communications, even though it might be hard for certain cultures. Most of the situations, we try not to communicate the feelings and judgment but the observations so that students could see the fact and realize the problems. But in certain cases, communicating the feelings and judgement could bring some senses of "friendly atmosphere/close relationships" and empathies (not "cold") with students, increasing the importance of the messages. For example, in my team, I would say  to students that I am not happy because we miss the deadline (observation+feelings), instead of telling them that we miss the deadline (observation only).

I think these techniques must be studied and practised a lot. In my working group, we plan to map direct/indirect communications to certain situations to see the effect of suitable communication techniques.  
