## Challenges faced by international students
Mostly, we discussed challenges faced by international students, a known subject but of course with a countless number of challenges. Being an international researcher myself (did some aboard studies) and interacting with many international students, I think that as a teacher we should not underestimate a huge number of obstacles that an international student is  faced with. Mostly, we as a teacher see that we provide fair and equal environments for students to learn and we, as with a certain degree of well setting, see that living difficulties are modest. Obvious challenges most of us are aware are  the different culture, the lack of family support  and the new friendship circle in international students. However, except few students with strong financial support from their family and have different intentions, most international students have to deal a lot with financial issues and that actually have a very strong effect on study progresses. Another important factor is the expected success: when a student leaves the student's home to pursuit the study abroad, a huge expectation is for the study success return, especially if the student is from the Asia or from well-established families (in terms of social status). I have seen many students want to drop the student due to the lack of study abilities but could not decide what to do next, due to the expectation from their family.

Understanding international students's challenges would help us to support them better - but not to reduce the quality to make them comfort. I think that we need to stay a bit from our strong background built in WEIRD (Western, educated, industrialized, rich and democratic) societies, where we live and teach, to understand other societies from which  international students come.
