## Practical Issues Lead to Adaptive Levels of Teaching

During a training we had a lot of discussion about the levels of thinking for teaching, basically the levels of teaching and learning. We have three different levels with different teaching and learning methods and impacts. In our discussion we debated whether we should start from the level 3 which everyone believes is the best way and we would never go for level 1. As we walked around with different poster discussions related to how to motivate students, set the  right learning and teaching environment, and  stop surface learning and focus on deep learning,   I saw that it is not simple to take the level 3 of teaching or to apply one level for the whole teaching course. The level 3 seems to me that it would work in perfect conditions when we have a perfect learning and teaching environment with highly motivated and homogeneous students and reasonable size of students. With these conditions, we have a very good understanding of the students and we can empower ourselves to exercise the level 3. But we don't have such a nice setting:  often we have different students in different background knowledge; also, they have been trained in different cultures of learning and teaching. So, what would be the right way from the three levels of teaching, because each level, although might not be perfect, but is an appropriate way in certain contexts. I think we must be dynamic and adaptive with our levels of teaching.

Generally, I love the situation starting with level 3. Practically, I must decide how to combine different levels of thinking for teaching and to transfer them into the teaching methods (consequently, the learning is expectedly aligned with the teaching). My goal is that we want students to learn required knowledge and we know that the students want to learn something. But it might not be suitable for some students who, in their culture, expect the teacher to teach them by giving knowledge to them and they just follow. Or in another situation, students must update their basic knowledge by receiving instructions from the teacher before they can really do a dep learning.    From my own experience, in many cases it might lead to a counterproductive situation if we don’t know students and start at level 3.  We need to understand many practical issues when we run the course: number of students and student backgrounds to decide   the level of teaching. I think the teacher should have a very good understanding of the class and should be adaptive in levels of teaching, e.g., for different groups of students or for different lectures in the same courses.  In Aalto’s highly international environment of students and activities, it would be excellent for a teacher to be trained for understanding international background and culture and diverse teaching and learning processes in which students might have been trained before. 
