## Constructive Alignment in My Teaching

### Challenges and experiences in constructive alignment for content selection, teaching and learning activities, assessment, workload

My teaching is often for big, complex software systems. It means that the intended learning outcomes enable students to be able to work on real, big complex systems; e.g., typical big data and service systems that we see in Facebook, Google, and Amazon, with huge number of machines and data. From the content viewpoint, learning materials and assignments are quite complex, based on many advanced courses, state-of-the-art technologies and real use cases; thus, I have spent quite a lot of time to prepare the materials and assignments and also updated my software development skills like a software developer. From the practical viewpoint of learning and teaching activities, we usually do not have enough (data and machine) resources for students to carry out the expected learning activities; thus, we have issues of financial and human resources to implement the intended learning outcomes. In the learning environment, we have to carefully maintain the alignment: if I ask the student to follow the real setting in the student’s learning activities that are defined for  the intended learning outcomes, the student might not have access the real settings. But without such access, the student cannot really understand the content of my courses and the student will not be able to perform the assessment (based on assignments of developing big software systems). On the other hand, if I ask the student just to follow trivial cases, the student does not see the real complexity of big systems. In many cases, resources from the university are not enough (in adequate) for setting up the right learning environment for big systems in my teaching. They are challenges in assuring constructive alignment.

To tackle the alignment challenge, especially in teaching big systems, as students cannot learn real-world issues with a simple version of big systems and I cannot compromise the intended learning outcomes, I focus on the following aspects in my strategy for constructive alignment:
* Creating real cases with a minimum setting that reflect the big systems that students can do learning activities themselves. This involves several things related to (i) suitable technologies selected for content and materials in learning activities, (ii) flexible, customized assignments for assessing students, and (iii) hands-on exercises with real-world software and datasets.
* Creating real big systems for a short time for different lectures so that they do not cost a lot but give students a real setting to practice their learning activities
* Getting support from industries to allow students to do the real work in real systems. For example, each student of my courses receives a coupon of 50$ credit from Google where students can really do learning activities with Google platforms.

Therefore, a huge amount of effort has been spent for ensuring constructive alignment for my courses. Besides lectures, I must carry real-world hands-on exercises with real systems which we have to setup outside the typical infrastructure of the university. Assessment of learning outcomes are based on the technologies and on the expected environment in the industrial setting.


### The implementation of constructive alignment starts from learning outcomes

Learning outcomes in my teaching are, for example, the ability to design and operate big systems. The student will not be able to do this, if the student does not really carry out learning activities within a real setting in the learning environment. As a teacher, we must not compromise the intended learning outcomes because any compromise means that the student is not ready to work in the topics given in the course, according to industrial needs. Therefore, I think that we must take learning outcomes as the central point and apply constructive alignment principles centered around the learning outcomes.

But due to the specific constraints of my courses, as well as in many similar courses, theoretical or lab concepts are not enough. We could easily provide slides and theoretical homework and carry out exams with a lot of theoretical questions and design questions. However, from my experiences, with big systems, or similar courses, such a way will not lead to the intended outcomes, because there are many aspects of real performance, exceptions, operations, etc. of big systems one cannot “feel” from the theory or simple designs. However, as said before, it is quite challenging to align assessment and teaching and learning activities due to a huge requirement of workload and the need to access to realistic systems. Using constructive alignment, I think that we can try to find different tactics for assessment by empowering student’s access to resources, for example to encourage students to scale their designs and implementation of assignments up to the maximum level they can with the resources they have (not all students have similar access to big systems). This also means that the design of assessment is flexible to allow students to bring in their own stuff; in my case, e.g., their own dataset and requirements from their work. For learning activities, we can also be flexible with technologies in the materials (and assignments) if the technologies meet the learning outcomes. For example, many students in my course know MongoDB as one main type of big data they use but others know Cassandra. Both types of databases are known in big systems. Therefore, students can use any of them in their learning activities. However, this requires the teacher to know many types of such big databases in order to assess students and run exercises for students.
