## Ethics as the DNA of the Learning

One aspect we have raised during our training is that Ethics is one of the central points of the learning process. The teacher must not only be ethical in all the teacher roles but also must guarantee ethical practices in all activities in the learning environment.

Being an ethical teacher is nothing new to me. However, this discussion triggers another question in my teaching in higher education: First, how can I teach students to understand ethical issues and embed such issues into my courses, where I teach students to deal with big data and to build large-scale systems, which potentially, if handled inappropriate, would lead to ethical issues like Facebook–Cambridge Analytica data scandal (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Facebook%E2%80%93Cambridge_Analytica_data_scandal)? Second, how can I teach my research students in my team to avoid situations w.r.t ethical funding and collaboration? Both issues are important aspects that I have  discussed very often, but informally, with colleagues and students. But it seems to me that, as a teacher, we should not just make sure ethical correctness in our roles/actions but we have to include ethical issues into learning objectives for subjects that we teach students. At the end, being ethical in a course’s activities is just within a small learning scope: teaching students to understand ethical issues in their study subjects and research activities is much more important, large learning scope.  Furthermore, ethical issues are not separated from every activity we do in learning and researching. Thus, we don’t need to wait for a separate course to teach students.

I am going to implement some aspects into my future lectures. At least, I will ask students to pay more attention to ethical issues when they design big data systems based on my course.
