## A Refection after a Teaching Session

 Teaching session in 20 minutes is interesting and useful. I think the most useful thing is that I realize that people who gave comments about my teaching have different backgrounds and different understanding about the content. Furthermore, they did not really know how the course from which I extracted the content for the teaching practice is carried out in practice.   Therefore, their questions remind me the fact that in the lecture I might have several similar students. The expectation for a teacher is very different when, like my colleagues giving the feedback, some students do not follow all lectures, might lack background, might not remember what has been said in the lecture, etc. Such students will expect the teacher tell them again something that the teacher would not think for the teacher’s “expected students”. When getting feedback regarding to things assumed for my “expected students”, I have thought if I should focus and repeat again the things that I assume the students remember! It looks like that I should, but I am not sure. My teaching is for advanced master students and should I just continue to assume that “a student is a student” and I must repeat again and again things that the student is assumed to remember and keep track. I have been faced with this problem when I found that many students just asked the same questions that we have explained in different places (e.g., wiki, lecture, …). I am not sure if the teacher could really be able to do this for advanced courses and with many students (and why? If just after another step the student will be graduated as a “master”).

I think some feedbacks would be good, but some are just “in principle” due to the different expectation of the people giving the feedback. Thus, another thought is that we could have a better way to let people know before the teaching practice: what do I/my colleague want to do with 20 minutes? The goal of the teaching practice is for what? 20 minutes for getting a job or for new methods or for new content? Unless we must tell the objective and the type of feedback I am looking for, I am afraid that all feedback is provided in a similar conceptual framework: should have more interactions, should remind students about abc, should let students providing realtime feedback, etc. I think we will get more useful feedback if we can declare what kind of feedback we look for from 20 minutes practice because not everyone has the same goal and the feedback should be built based on the goal of the people who give the teaching practice.
